add envertech evt800 documentation (#40152)
home-assistant/home-assistant.github.io: source/_integrations/envertech_evt800.markdown

---
title: Envertech EVT800
description: Instructions on how to connect your Envertech EVT800 device to Home Assistant.
ha_iot_class: Local Polling
ha_category:
  - Energy
ha_config_flow: true
ha_release: 2025.8
ha_codeowners:
   - '@daniel-bergmann-00'
ha_domain: envertech_evt800
ha_integration_type: integration
---

> The Envertech EVT800 enables {% term integration %} with [Envertech EVT800](https://www.envertec.com/products/microinverter/66.html/) solar inverters in Home Assistant.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The **Envertech EVT800** {% term integration %} allows you to integrate [Envertech EVT800](https://www.envertec.com/products/microinverter/66.html/) solar inverters in Home Assistant.
```

> ## Supported Devices

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Supported devices
```
We use [sentence-style capitalization](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/style-guide/text-formatting/using-type/use-sentence-style-capitalization), also in headings. Please fix throughout the document.

The following devices are known to be supported by this integration:

- Envertech EVT800

## Prerequisites

Before setting up the integration, ensure the following:

1. Your EVT800 is powered by solar (it does not power on without sunlight).
2. The EVT800 is connected to your local network via Wi-Fi.
3. Determine the **IP address** of the EVT800:
   - Check your router`s device list or use a network scanning tool.
4. Open a web browser and navigate to:
   `http://<YOUR_EVT800_IP_ADDRESS>`
   - Default username: `admin`
   - Default password: `admin`
5. Go to **Other settings** and set the **Protocol** to **TCP Server**.

{% include integrations/config_flow.md %}

> ## Configuration Variables

Reviewer: you could use a configuration_basic block for this section. As shown in [this example](https://github.com/home-assistant/home-assistant.io/blob/current/source/_integrations/_integration_docs_template.markdown?plain=1#L57-L62).

<img width="1167" height="140" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/3acf7ac7-9e4b-4637-bebb-65cae64930d3" />

When you manually add one EVT800 device, the following form is presented:

> - **IP Address**: The local IP address of your EVT800 device. Check your router’s device list or use a network scanning tool.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **IP address**: The local IP address of your EVT800 device. Check your router’s device list or use a network scanning tool.
```
same here, we use sentence-style capitalization also in UI strings.

- **Port**: The port where the EVT800 TCP Server is running (default: `14489`).
- **Local Server Type**: Select `TCP Server`. This is currently the only supported protocol for the EVT800 device.

## Sensors

This integration exposes various sensor readings from the Envertech EVT800 inverter.

> | Name              | Unit | Description                                 |

Reviewer: Consider converting this into a list. List format is preferred over tables.

| ----------------- | ---- | ------------------------------------------- |

> | `timestamp`       | -    | Timestamp of the last received data packet. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Timestamp       | -    | Timestamp of the last received data packet. |
```
As this is not a YAML integration, we should show the strings as they are shown in the UI, rather than the code.

Author: In the current core PR all library fields are shown in Home Assistans that includes the timestamp field of the last time the solar inverter has sent a update.
Maybe i currently choose a bad name for the timestamp or it can be removed.

  - **Unit**: Kilowatt-hours (kWh)

- **Total energy MPPT 2**
  - **Description**: Cumulative energy generated by MPPT channel 2
  - **Unit**: Kilowatt-hours (kWh)

## Data updates

This integration establishes a persistent TCP connection with the EVT800 in **TCP server mode** and listens for incoming data packets containing the latest sensor values.

## Known limitations

- The integration does not support any actions for the device.
  - To execute any actions on the inverter, use the official EnverBridge or EnverView mobile app.
- Requires sufficient solar input for operation. The inverter is not reachable at night or in low-light conditions.

## Troubleshooting

### Problem: Data shows "Unavailable"

#### Cause

Incorrect configuration or the device is not powered.

#### Resolution

1. Ensure the EVT800 is receiving enough sunlight to power on.
2. Verify that your Home Assistant instance is on the same local network as the EVT800.
3. Double-check the following:
   - Correct **IP address** and **Port**.
   - **TCP server mode** is enabled on the inverter.
   - No firewall or router setting is blocking local TCP connections.

> ### General tips

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Losing connection to the device
```

2. The EVT800 is connected to your local network via Wi-Fi.
3. Determine the **IP address** of the EVT800:
   - Check your router`s device list or use a network scanning tool.
4. Open a web browser and navigate to:
   `http://<YOUR_EVT800_IP_ADDRESS>`
   - Default username: `admin`
   - Default password: `admin`
5. Go to **Other settings** and set the **Protocol** to **TCP server**.

{% include integrations/config_flow.md %}

## Configuration variables

When you manually add one EVT800 device, the following form is presented:

{% configuration_basic %}
IP address:
  description: The local IP address of your EVT800 device. Check your router’s device list or use a network scanning tool.
Port:
  description: "The port where the EVT800 TCP server is running (default: `14489`)."
Local server type:
  description: Select TCP server. This is currently the only supported protocol for the EVT800 device.
{% endconfiguration_basic %}

## Sensors

This integration exposes the following sensor readings from the Envertech EVT800 inverter:

- **Timestamp**
  - **Description**: Timestamp of the last received data packet
  - **Unit**: Milliseconds

- **MPPT 1 identifier number**

>   - **Description**: Unique identifier for MPPT channel 1

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - **Description**: Unique identifier for <abbr title="maximum power point tracking">MPPT</abbr> channel 1
```
Please correct me if I got this acronym wrong.

  - **Unit**: Volts (V)

- **Grid voltage on MPPT 2**
  - **Description**: AC Voltage MPPT 2
  - **Unit**: Volts (V)

- **Temperature MPPT 1**
  - **Description**: Internal temperature of the inverter on MPPT channel 1
  - **Unit**: Degrees Celsius (°C)

- **Temperature MPPT 2**
  - **Description**: Internal temperature of the inverter on MPPT channel 2
  - **Unit**: Degrees Celsius (°C)

- **Total Energy MPPT 1**
  - **Description**: Cumulative energy generated by MPPT channel 1
  - **Unit**: Kilowatt-hours (kWh)

- **Total Energy MPPT 2**
  - **Description**: Cumulative energy generated by MPPT channel 2
  - **Unit**: Kilowatt-hours (kWh)

## Data updates

This integration establishes a persistent TCP connection with the EVT800 in **TCP server mode** and listens for incoming data packets containing the latest sensor values.

## Known limitations

- The integration does **not** support any actions for the device.
  - To execute any actions on the inverter, use the official EnverBridge or EnverView mobile app.
- Requires sufficient solar input for operation. The inverter is not reachable at night or in low-light conditions.

## Troubleshooting

> ### Problem: data shows “Unvailable”

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Symptom: data shows “Unvailable”
```

> **Cause**:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Cause

```

Incorrect configuration or the device is not powered.

> **Steps to resolve**:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Resolution
```

> ### Problem: “data not available”

Reviewer: is "data not available" a message that is displayed somewhere? Or is the data not visible in Home Assistant?

Author: Yes, it refers to the sensors that aren't providing any data. I also updated the message in the problem to match the UI message for 'Unavailable'.

<img width="470" height="61" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/eb999003-b719-45bd-ae63-2d81891fe93c" />

Reviewer: ah, I see. Nice!

1. Ensure the EVT800 is receiving enough sunlight to power on.
2. Verify that your Home Assistant instance is on the same local network as the EVT800.
3. Double-check the following:
   - Correct **IP address** and **Port**.
   - **TCP server mode** is enabled on the inverter.
   - No firewall or router setting is blocking local TCP connections.

---

### General tips

> - If you frequently lose to the device connection, consider assigning a **static IP** to your EVT800 in your router`s DHCP settings.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- If you frequently lose connection to the device, consider assigning a **static IP** to your EVT800 in your router`s DHCP settings.
```

---
title: Envertech EVT800
description: Instructions on how to connect your Envertech EVT800 device to Home Assistant.

> ha_iot_class: Local Polling

Reviewer: ```suggestion
ha_iot_class: Local Push
```
I saw that there was a comment in core. Is it local push now?

ha_category:
  - Energy
ha_config_flow: true

> ha_release: 2025.8

Reviewer: ```suggestion
ha_release: 2025.9
```
tbd

> ha_release: 2025.8

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
ha_release: 2026.7
```

ha_codeowners:
   - '@daniel-bergmann-00'
ha_domain: envertech_evt800
ha_integration_type: integration
---

The **Envertech EVT800** {% term integration %} allows you to integrate [Envertech EVT800](https://www.envertec.com/products/microinverter/66.html/) solar inverters in Home Assistant.

## Supported devices

The following devices are known to be supported by this integration:

- Envertech EVT800

## Prerequisites

Before setting up the integration, ensure the following:

1. Your EVT800 is powered by solar (it does not power on without sunlight).
2. The EVT800 is connected to your local network via Wi-Fi.
3. Determine the **IP address** of the EVT800:

>    - Check your router`s device list or use a network scanning tool.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   - Check your router's device list or use a network scanning tool.
```

4. Open a web browser and navigate to:
   `http://<YOUR_EVT800_IP_ADDRESS>`
   - Default username: `admin`
   - Default password: `admin`
5. Go to **Other settings** and set the **Protocol** to **TCP server**.

{% include integrations/config_flow.md %}

## Configuration variables

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> When you manually add one EVT800 device, the following form is presented:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When you manually add one EVT800 device, fill in the following information:
```

{% configuration_basic %}
IP address:
  description: The local IP address of your EVT800 device. Check your router’s device list or use a network scanning tool.
Port:

>   description: "The port where the EVT800 TCP server is running (default: `14489`)."

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  description: "The port where the EVT800 TCP server is running (default: `14889`)."
```

Local server type:
  description: Select TCP server. This is currently the only supported protocol for the EVT800 device.
{% endconfiguration_basic %}

## Sensors

This integration exposes the following sensor readings from the Envertech EVT800 inverter:

> - **Timestamp**

Reviewer: is this shown? I didn't see it in the core strings.

  - **Description**: Timestamp of the last received data packet
  - **Unit**: Milliseconds

> - **MPTT ID 1**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **MPPT ID 1**
```

  - **Description**: Unique identifier for <abbr title="maximum power point tracking">MPPT</abbr> channel 1

> - **MPTT ID 2**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **MPPT ID 2**
```

  - **Description**: Unique identifier for MPPT channel 2

> - **Software Version**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Software version**
```
I realize the code has been merged now, but normally, we use [sentence-style capitalization](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/style-guide/capitalization), also for UI strings.

> - **Software Version**

Reviewer: Is this shown? I didn't see it in the core strings.

  - **Description**: Software version of the inverter

> - **DC Voltage MPPT 1**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **DC voltage MPPT 1**
```

  - **Description**: Input voltage on MPPT channel 1
  - **Unit**: Volts (V)

> - **DC Voltage MPPT 2**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **DC voltage MPPT 2**
```

  - **Description**: Input voltage on MPPT channel 2
  - **Unit**: Volts (V)

> - **DC Power MPPT 1**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **DC power MPPT 1**
```

  - **Description**: DC output power from MPPT channel 1
  - **Unit**: Watts (W)

> - **DC Power MPPT 2**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **DC power MPPT 2**
```

  - **Description**: DC output power from MPPT channel 2
  - **Unit**: Watts (W)

> - **DC Current MPPT 1**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **DC current MPPT 1**
```

  - **Description**: Output current on MPPT channel 1
  - **Unit**: Amperes (A)

> - **DC Current MPPT 2**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **DC current MPPT 2**
```

  - **Description**: Output current on MPPT channel 2
  - **Unit**: Amperes (A)

- **Grid frequency on MPPT 1**
  - **Description**: AC Frequency MPPT 1
  - **Unit**: Hertz (Hz)

- **Grid frequency on MPPT 2**
  - **Description**: AC Frequency MPPT 2
  - **Unit**: Hertz (Hz)

- **Grid voltage on MPPT 1**
  - **Description**: AC Voltage MPPT 1
  - **Unit**: Volts (V)

- **Grid voltage on MPPT 2**
  - **Description**: AC Voltage MPPT 2
  - **Unit**: Volts (V)

- **Temperature MPPT 1**
  - **Description**: Internal temperature of the inverter on MPPT channel 1
  - **Unit**: Degrees Celsius (°C)

- **Temperature MPPT 2**
  - **Description**: Internal temperature of the inverter on MPPT channel 2
  - **Unit**: Degrees Celsius (°C)

> - **Total Energy MPPT 1**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Total energy MPPT 1**
```

  - **Description**: Cumulative energy generated by MPPT channel 1
  - **Unit**: Kilowatt-hours (kWh)

> - **Total Energy MPPT 2**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Total energy MPPT 2*
```

  - **Description**: Cumulative energy generated by MPPT channel 2
  - **Unit**: Kilowatt-hours (kWh)

## Data updates

This integration establishes a persistent TCP connection with the EVT800 in **TCP server mode** and listens for incoming data packets containing the latest sensor values.

## Known limitations

> - The integration does **not** support any actions for the device.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The integration does not support any actions for the device.
```
We use [bold to markup UI strings](https://developers.home-assistant.io/docs/documenting/general-style-guide), not to highlight text.

  - To execute any actions on the inverter, use the official EnverBridge or EnverView mobile app.
- Requires sufficient solar input for operation. The inverter is not reachable at night or in low-light conditions.

## Troubleshooting

> ### Symptom: data shows “Unvailable”

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Symptom: data shows “Unavailable”
```

#### Cause

Incorrect configuration or the device is not powered.

#### Resolution

1. Ensure the EVT800 is receiving enough sunlight to power on.
2. Verify that your Home Assistant instance is on the same local network as the EVT800.
3. Double-check the following:
   - Correct **IP address** and **Port**.
   - **TCP server mode** is enabled on the inverter.
   - No firewall or router setting is blocking local TCP connections.

> ---

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

### General tips

> - If you frequently lose connection to the device, consider assigning a **static IP** to your EVT800 in your router`s DHCP settings.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- If you frequently lose connection to the device, consider assigning a **static IP** to your EVT800 in your router's DHCP settings.
```
